- [Instructor] GitLab's workload tracking feature
is centered around the concept of issues.
Issues allow new work to be identified
and provide an area for the team
to collaborate on the new work item.
When using Git flow,
issues serve as the seeds for new work items,
eventually growing into feature branches
once the work is defined.
Issues and feature branches provide tight integration
between workload tracking features
and the source code repository in GitLab.
Let's work on building out a new issue
within the issue section of GitLab.
You'll notice we don't have any issues available yet.
So we get this nice button in the middle of the page
to create a new issue.
If we click on that button we get presented
with the new issue form.
We're going to go ahead and create this issue
for the flow project.
We're simply going to title the issue Missing Feature A.
Once we have a title we can go ahead
and write a description for our issue.
I'll simply state that the project
is missing feature A as requested.
You'll notice that the description section
provides us with a bunch of markup
that we can apply to the text.
Use this to help fully define your requirement.
At the bottom of the form we are able
to assign this issue to our team members.
So here we see the members of our team
and we're going to go ahead an assign this issue
to a contributor.
We can also specify a due date for this issue.
Let's say it's going to be due on Tuesday.
At this point, if we're satisfied with our issue,
we can go ahead and submit it.
We'll now notice if we navigate back into the issue section
we're presented with a list.
If we had more issues they would
all be listed here on the screen.
Drilling down into missing feature A
you'll see that we can now edit
the issue that we've created.
There's also this collaboration section
where a discussion can be added regarding the issue at hand
by all team members.
In this area we can record a variety
of information about the issue.
For example, let's say that we wanna specify an estimate.
There's a neat, quick action syntax that we can use.
So if you use the forward slash you'll see
that we get some auto complete.
And this allows us to select one of the quick actions.
One of those is estimate,
and this allows us to attach an estimate to the issue
for how long we think it will take to complete.
You'll notice the syntax allows us to specify weeks,
days, hours, or minutes.
Let's say it's going to take eight hours to complete.
Once we've specified this within the comment
we go ahead and hit comment and you'll notice
that our estimate on the right hand side has been increased.
When we have a lot of issues it's very helpful
to track them using the board.
You'll notice that our new issue
is currently sitting in the backlog.
We can add new lists to our board
by clicking on the add list button.
This will create new columns
that we can shift issues between
as they progress through the stages of development.
Once we click on add list you'll see create project label.
This is a little bit of a confusing part in GitLab.
The lists are actually labels.
It's a little bit off in the terminology,
but as long as you know that label
is equal to list you'll be fine.
Once we click on the create project label,
all we need to do is provide a new name for the label.
In this case we're going to add the Under Development label.
We'll assign a color,
let's say green because development started,
and then we'll go ahead and click on create.
Let's create a new list as well for those issues
that are ready for testing.
We'll set the color here as this nice magenta
and then click on create.
So now if we return back to our board
you see our two new lists.
And we can go ahead and drag feature A from the backlog
to Under Development.
Notice once we dragged the feature under the new list
it was then tagged with the name of the list,
or the label was added to the issue.
This is a way to know the status of a particular work item.
Now let's talk a little bit about milestones.
Within GitLab milestones provide
a way to organize issues for a project.
We can navigate to the milestones area
by clicking on the milestone options on the sidebar.
To create a new milestone all we need to do
is click on the new milestone button.
The milestone is used to group issues together
so that we can track a large initiative
over a period of time.
Let's say that we want to create a new milestone
to track some epic feature.
And we'll add a little bit of a description.
We'll say this feature will be epic,
and then we can go ahead and create that milestone.
If we wanted we could assign dates
for when the milestone's going to begin
and when it's going to end.
Okay, so now we have this new epic feature milestone.
At this point we can return to our list,
and if we click on missing feature A
we can add it to that group of issues within the milestone
by using the edit option on the right hand side
beside milestone and then we just click on Epic Feature.
So now the missing feature A issue
is tracked in that milestone.
You'll also notice that we get a nice history
of all the work that's done on this issue.
If we navigate back to the milestone section
you'll see that we can drill down into the Epic Feature
and it shows us where all the issues
associated with that milestone reside
as far as their status.
So that wraps up our overview
of the workload tracking features in GitLab.
Using this feature your team can easily manage your backlog
and track work on your project.
It will help your team communicate
and collaborate better regarding your workload.